In the project at the end of this course,
you are going to apply the skills that you have acquired
in this 2D Medical Imaging course to analyze data from
the NIH chest X-ray dataset and train a CNN to
classify a given chest X-ray for the presence or absence of pneumonia.
I'm going to warn you now,
this is a really hard task.
You'll be provided with the medical images with
clinical labels extracted from radiologists reports.
In the project, you will first do some initial analyses
on the data using some techniques we will learn in the next lesson.
Then, you can build and train your model on them.
Next, you will write some code to transform data from
a file called DICOM to imaging data you are familiar with,
and feed them into the model that you've trained.
Last but not least,
you will write documentation for your algorithm and submit it to the FDA for clearance.
I want to take a minute to tie the relevance of
this project to what's currently going on in our world with COVID-19.
In our project, we're going to make a classifier
for detecting pneumonia from X-ray images.
You've probably been hearing on the news quite a bit
about how there's a shortage of test kits for COVID-19.
Well, in just the past month,
there have already been researchers working to figure out,
if they can create deep learning algorithms to diagnose COVID-19 from chest X-rays.
They're using the exact same principles that you are going to be learning in this course,
and implementing in your project with pneumonia.
Given that almost every hospital in America has an X-ray scanner,
imagine how much more accessible deep learning could make
COVID-19 testing if we use it for deep learning with X-rays